# le-promise

My custom implementation of the JavaScript class Promise.

## Reason for Creating this
* customizability
  * Would you like to tweak how Promises work? Say, what would you like this to return:
  `Promise.reject(new Error('Ooops!')).then()`
  A rejected promise (as Chrome does) or a pending promise (as Node.js does)?
* Consistency
  * You can take `le-promise` across platforms and expect its behavior not to change.
  While standard JavaScript promises may differ slightly in behavior across platforms
  and also differ internally - although none of this should normally be a concern.
* Insight
  * The best way to understand a bicycle may be to re-invent it
* Polyfill
  * This code can be easily re-written to act as a polyfill for Promise-challenged browsers (see below)
* Fun
  * Writing this was a lot of fun ;)


## Installation
* git
  * 'git clone https://github.com/levanroinishvili/le-promise.git`
* npm
  * `npm install le-promise`
* Copy & paste into ES6 browsers
  * or just copy & paste the contents of the le-promise.js file into the browser console ;)
  * do not forget to remove the last statement `module.exports = lePromise;`
  * afterwards use in the console `lePromise` instead of `Promise`

## Usage
* `node.js` or `CommonJS`
``` JavaScript
const lePromise = require('le-promise');
// Then simply use lePromise instead of Promise, eg:
const x = new lePromise( (resolve,reject)=>{  resolve(100); });
```
* Modular JavaScript
  * If you using a CommonJS modules in your script via a module loader or some magic,
  you can use this class as shown in the example above for `node.js`
* ES6 JavaScript without support for modules (as currently is the case with browsers)
  * In the file `le-promise.js`, remove the last statement `module.exports = lePromise;
  * Include `le-promise.js` using the script tag, e.g. `<script src="le-promise.js"></script>`
  * Afterwards just use `lePromise` instead of `Promise`
* ES5 JavaScript
  * Use the code from `dist/es5/le-promise.js`
  * More elegant solution would be to manually rewrite the code for es5, but
  doing this for every revision of the es6 code may not be practical. The above
  file is automatically generated by the Babel plugin.
## Usage as a polyfill
  * Use the code from `dist/polyfill/promise.js` and include it through the
  `<script></script>` tag.
  * If you change the main `src/es6/le-promise.js` file, run `gulp polyfill`
  to re-build the `dist/polyfill/promise.js` file
## Mixing `Promise` with `lePromise` in code
`lePromise` can be mixed with standard JavaScript promises, except inside
`lePromise.all()`, `lePromise.race()`, `Promise.all()` and `Promise.race()`

So, do not use any of the following:
```JavaScript
lePromise.all([ lePromise.resolve(1), Promise.resolve(2), lePromise.resolve(3) ]);
Promise.race([ Promise.resolve(1), Promise.reject(new Error('2')), lePromise.reject(new Error('3'))]);
```

The reason for this is that the internally Promise object is implemented differently on different platforms
and it may not have been worth the effort to figure out all the details, when `le-promise` was simply
conceived as an alternative implementation of the standard JavaScript Promise.
